docs/QUICK_START.md, before:

# Compass Quick Start Guide

Get Compass running on your local machine in under 5 minutes.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or higher
- PostgreSQL database (local or Railway)
- npm or yarn

## Installation

### 1. Clone and Install

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd compass

# Run automated setup
npm run setup
```

The setup script will:
- ✓ Check Node.js version
- ✓ Install all dependencies
- ✓ Copy .env.example to .env
- ✓ Generate Prisma client

### 2. Configure Environment

Edit `backend/.env` with your credentials:

```env
# Required: Database connection
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@host:5432/compass"

# Optional: AI features
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-claude-api-key"

# Optional: Time tracking
TOGGL_API_TOKEN="your-toggl-token"
```

### 3. Initialize Database

```bash
# Run migrations
npm run db:migrate

# (Optional) Open Prisma Studio to verify
npm run db:studio
```

### 4. Start Development Servers

```bash
npm run dev
```

This starts:
- Backend: http://localhost:3001
- Frontend: http://localhost:3000

## Troubleshooting

### Environment Check

Run the verification script to diagnose issues:

```bash
npm run verify
```

### Common Issues

**Port already in use**
```bash
# Find process using port
lsof -ti:3000
lsof -ti:3001

# Kill process
kill -9 <PID>
```

**Database connection failed**
- Verify DATABASE_URL in backend/.env
- Check PostgreSQL is running
- Test connection: `npm run db:studio`

**Prisma client not generated**
```bash
npm run db:generate
```

**Dependencies out of sync**
```bash
# Clean install
rm -rf node_modules backend/node_modules frontend/node_modules
npm run install:all
```

## npm Scripts Reference

| Script | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start both frontend and backend |
| `npm run setup` | Initial environment setup |
| `npm run verify` | Check environment configuration |
| `npm run install:all` | Install all dependencies |
| `npm run db:migrate` | Run database migrations |
| `npm run db:generate` | Generate Prisma client |
| `npm run db:studio` | Open Prisma Studio |
| `npm run db:reset` | Reset database (⚠️ deletes data) |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |

## Manual Startup

If you prefer to start servers separately:

```bash
# Terminal 1 - Backend
cd backend
npm run dev

# Terminal 2 - Frontend
cd frontend
npm start
```

## Next Steps

1. 📚 Read the [full README](../README.md)
2. 🗄️ Review the [database schema](../backend/prisma/schema.prisma)
3. 🏗️ Check the [project structure](../README.md#project-structure)
4. 🚀 Start building!

## Getting Help

- Check logs: `tail -f backend.log` or `tail -f frontend.log`
- Run health check: `curl http://localhost:3001/api/health`
- Verify environment: `npm run verify`

Commit message:

docs(security): document Anthropic health-check workflow

docs/QUICK_START.md, after:

# Compass Quick Start Guide

Get Compass running on your local machine in under 5 minutes.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or higher
- PostgreSQL database (local or Railway)
- npm or yarn

## Installation

### 1. Clone and Install

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd compass

# Run automated setup
npm run setup
```

The setup script will:
- ✓ Check Node.js version
- ✓ Install all dependencies
- ✓ Copy .env.example to .env
- ✓ Generate Prisma client

### 2. Configure Environment

Edit `backend/.env` with your credentials:

```env
# Required: Database connection
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@host:5432/compass"

# Optional: AI features
COMPASS_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-claude-api-key"  # fallback to ANTHROPIC_API_KEY if not set

# Optional: Time tracking
TOGGL_API_TOKEN="your-toggl-token"
```

> ℹ️ The backend currently reads `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`. For compatibility the new Anthropic health check accepts either variable, so you can keep the existing key name while migrating to the `COMPASS_` prefix.

### 3. Initialize Database

```bash
# Run migrations
npm run db:migrate

# (Optional) Open Prisma Studio to verify
npm run db:studio
```

### 4. Start Development Servers

```bash
npm run dev
```

This starts:
- Backend: http://localhost:3001
- Frontend: http://localhost:3000

## Troubleshooting

### Environment Check

Run the verification script to diagnose issues:

```bash
npm run verify
```

### Anthropic Connectivity

Validate Anthropic credentials without bespoke scripts:

```bash
COMPASS_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-... npm run check:anthropic
```

The command shells into `scripts/health-check.sh` and only prints sanitized status lines so keys never hit your terminal history.

### Common Issues

**Port already in use**
```bash
# Find process using port
lsof -ti:3000
lsof -ti:3001

# Kill process
kill -9 <PID>
```

**Database connection failed**
- Verify DATABASE_URL in backend/.env
- Check PostgreSQL is running
- Test connection: `npm run db:studio`

**Prisma client not generated**
```bash
npm run db:generate
```

**Dependencies out of sync**
```bash
# Clean install
rm -rf node_modules backend/node_modules frontend/node_modules
npm run install:all
```

## npm Scripts Reference

| Script | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start both frontend and backend |
| `npm run setup` | Initial environment setup |
| `npm run verify` | Check environment configuration |
| `npm run check:anthropic` | Run the sanitized Anthropic connectivity check |
| `npm run install:all` | Install all dependencies |
| `npm run db:migrate` | Run database migrations |
| `npm run db:generate` | Generate Prisma client |
| `npm run db:studio` | Open Prisma Studio |
| `npm run db:reset` | Reset database (⚠️ deletes data) |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |

## Manual Startup

If you prefer to start servers separately:

```bash
# Terminal 1 - Backend
cd backend
npm run dev

# Terminal 2 - Frontend
cd frontend
npm start
```

## Next Steps

1. 📚 Read the [full README](../README.md)
2. 🗄️ Review the [database schema](../backend/prisma/schema.prisma)
3. 🏗️ Check the [project structure](../README.md#project-structure)
4. 🚀 Start building!

## Getting Help

- Check logs: `tail -f backend.log` or `tail -f frontend.log`
- Run health check: `curl http://localhost:3001/api/health`
- Verify environment: `npm run verify`
